.TH SMOOSH 1 "March 2026" "smoosh 1.0.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
smoosh \- turn git repos into AI-ready context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smoosh
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPATH\fR | \fIURL\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smoosh
aggregates the contents of a git repository into a format optimised for Large Language Models (LLMs) and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipelines. It performs smart chunking, excludes binary files via MIME checks, and applies rigorous output verification.
.PP
By default,
.B smoosh
runs in an interactive guided mode when executed without arguments.
.SH SCOPE OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-docs
Includes documentation files only (md, rst, txt, adoc, org, tex). This is the default mode when pointing to a directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-code
Includes documentation and all code files (py, js, ts, rs, go, java, rb, etc.).
.TP
.BR \-\-all
Includes everything tracked by git, safely excluding binaries via structural MIME-type checks.
.SH FILTERING OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-only " \fIGLOB\fR"
Restrict output to matching extensions (overrides mode).
.TP
.BR \-\-include " \fIGLOB\fR"
Add extensions to the current mode.
.TP
.BR \-\-exclude " \fIGLOB\fR"
Exclude matching paths (comma-separated).
.TP
.BR \-\-include\-hidden
Include dotfiles and dot-directories (e.g., \fI.github/\fR, \fI.env.example\fR).
.SH OUTPUT OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-format " \fIFORMAT\fR"
Output format. Accepts \fBmd\fR (default), \fBtext\fR, or \fBxml\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-max\-words " \fIN\fR"
Words per output chunk. Default: \fB450000\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-output\-dir " \fIPATH\fR"
Directory for output files. Default: \fB_smooshes/\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-toc
Add a table of contents to the top of each chunk.
.TP
.BR \-\-line\-numbers
Prefix each line with its source line number.
.SH PREVIEW AND AUTOMATION OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run
Preview file lists and token counts without writing output.
.TP
.BR \-\-quiet
Print output paths only (one per line) to stdout, for piping.
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Structured JSON to stdout, forcing status messages to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-interactive
Skip interactive mode entirely, using flag defaults.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI colour output. (Also respects NO_COLOR environment variable).
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-check\-secrets
Skip the basic secrets pattern scan.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Interactive guided setup:
.RS 4
$ smoosh
.RE
.PP
Docs and code from the current directory:
.RS 4
$ smoosh --code .
.RE
.PP
Output Python files as XML for a RAG pipeline:
.RS 4
$ smoosh --only "*.py" --format xml /path/to/repo
.RE
.PP
Clone and process a remote repository:
.RS 4
$ smoosh https://github.com/K1-R1/smoosh
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
.B 0
Success
.br
.B 1
Invalid flags or arguments
.br
.B 2
Path not found or not a git repository
.br
.B 3
No matching files for current mode/filters
.br
.B 4
Verification failed (expected/actual file list mismatch)
.br
.B 5
Remote clone failed
.br
.B 7
Write permission denied
.br
.B 130
Interrupted (Ctrl-C)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/K1-R1/smoosh/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
smoosh was developed by K1-R1 (and contributors).
